# Online HealthCare Frontend

## Project Overview

Online HealthCare is a robust and comprehensive healthcare management system designed to streamline communication and appointment processes between patients, doctors, and administrators. This system incorporates cutting-edge technologies such as NodeJS, Express, Prisma, WEB RTC (via Agora.io), and PostgreSQL for efficient and secure data management.

## Features

- **User Authentication**: Secure login and registration for patients, doctors, and administrators.
- **Role-Based Access**: Dynamic interfaces and functionalities based on user roles (patient, doctor, admin).
- **Appointment Booking**: Easy-to-use interface for booking and managing medical appointments.
- **Medical Records**: Access and manage medical history, diagnostic reports, and prescriptions.
- **Video Consultations**: Seamless real-time video consultations using Agora.io.
- **Prescription Management**: View and download prescriptions generated by doctors.
- **Notifications**: Automated email notifications for appointment confirmations, invoices, and updates.

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (version 14.0.3 or higher)
- npm or yarn

## Technology Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js
- **Programming Language**: JavaScript
- **Styling**: CSS, Material-UI
- **State Management**: Redux Toolkit
- **Form Management**: react-hook-form
- **Real-time Communication**: Agora.io (WEB RTC)

## Setup Instructions

1. **Clone the repository to your local machine:**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Sakhawat0pu/health_care_client
   ```

2. **Navigate to the project directory:**

   ```bash
   cd health_care_client
   ```

3. **Install dependencies using npm or yarn:**

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

   or

   ```bash
   yarn install
   ```

4. **Add a `.env` file in the root directory with the following environment variables:**

   ```bash
   NEXT_PUBLIC_BACKEND_URL=https://your-backend-url.com
   NEXT_PUBLIC_AGORA_APP_ID=your_agora_app_id
   ```

5. **Start the development server:**

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

   or

   ```bash
   yarn dev
   ```

6. **Access the application in your browser:**

   ```
   http://localhost:3000
   ```

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

- **`npm run dev`**: Runs the app in the development mode.
- **`npm run build`**: Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.
- **`npm run start`**: Runs the app in production mode.

## Web Application Requirements (High Level)

### Technologies

- **NodeJS and Express**: Used for server-side application development.
- **WEB RTC (Agora.io)**: Third-party service for real-time communication between doctors and patients.
- **Prisma**: ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) tool for database management.
- **PostgreSQL**: Database management system.
- **Nextjs**: A React Framework for building applications.

### User Roles and Functionalities

#### Admin

- **Account Management**
  - Create and manage doctor accounts.
- **Appointment Management**
  - Create schedule slots.
  - Manage doctor appointment slots (Change status of appointment).
- **Access to Information**
  - View appointment history and details.
  - Access and manage doctor profiles.
  - View metadata.

#### Doctor

- **Appointment Management**
  - View upcoming appointments.
  - Set appointment slots.
  - Take appointments.
- **Patient Profile**
  - Access patient profiles and medical history.
  - View uploaded diagnostic test reports of patients.
  - View previous prescriptions (if any).
- **Prescription Management**
  - Generate prescriptions for patients during and after consultations.
  - Send prescriptions to patients through email by using the system.
  - Attach additional medical notes and instructions to prescriptions.

#### Patient

- **Account Management**
  - Register a new account during the first visit.
  - Leverage features for password recovery and account security.
- **Appointment Booking**
  - Schedule appointments with available time slots.
  - Book appointments with specific doctors.
- **Medical Record Management**
  - Manage personal profile data.
  - Maintain medical history.
  - Upload diagnostic test reports.
- **Prescription Access**
  - Access and view prescriptions.
  - Receive prescriptions through the platform.
  - Additionally, prescriptions are emailed to the patient for easy access and reference.
- **Payment and Confirmation**
  - Pay consultation fees when booking appointments.
  - Receive an email confirmation with an invoice after successful payment.
  - Appointments are confirmed only after payment.
  - If payment is not made within 30 minutes of booking, the booking will be automatically canceled.
- **Reviews**
  - Provide reviews with ratings for consulting doctors.
  - Include a comment section for additional feedback.
  - View and manage previously submitted reviews.

### System Features

- Real-time communication through WEB RTC.
- Secure user authentication and authorization.
- Seamless appointment scheduling and management.
- Comprehensive patient profiles and medical records.
- Seamless integration for patients to pay consultation fees securely.
- Automated email notifications for appointment confirmations, invoices, and prescription delivery.
- Doctors can generate detailed prescriptions during and after consultations.

### Single-Page Application (SSR)

- **Landing Page**: Provides information about the Online HealthCare system.
- **Doctor Profile**: Displays detailed information about doctors.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and create a pull request with your changes.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Contact

For any inquiries or support, please contact at [s19hossain98@gmail.com](s19hossain98@gmail.com).
